## Psalm 88

*A Song. A Psalm of the Sons of Korah.*

> &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;**Note:** A Pslam that depicts a painful realization. "Good" people often suffer the most; often suffering till they reach *rock bottom*, or till they *wish to die*. Sadly, this is drastically unlike most Disney movies. This is a Psalm I think everyone should read when they simply cannot see a *single* ray of hope. I spill many tears when reading this Psalm.

**1** O Lord, God of my salvation,

    I cry out day and night before you.

**2** Let my prayer come before you;

    incline your ear to my cry!
> &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;**Note 1-2:** Starting off with acknowledging that **Only God** can help him out of this sadness.

**3** For my soul is full of troubles,

    and my life draws near to Sheol.

**4** I am counted among those who go down to the pit;

    I am a man who has no strength,

**5** like one forsaken among the dead,

    like the slain that lie in the grave,

    like those whom you remember no more,

    for they are cut off from your hand.

**6** You have put me in the depths of the pit,

    in the regions dark and deep.

**7** Your wrath lies heavy upon me,

    and you overwhelm me with all your waves.

**8** You have caused my companions to shun me;

    you have made me a horror to them.

    I am shut in so that I cannot escape;
> &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;**Note 3-8:** When you are angry at someone, especially when you feel they have abandoned you, you typically do not complain about them to their face; you complain about them to a friend or close companion. This is unique, even in his deepest despair, he choses to complain *"about"* God, to *"God"*. This is an exercise (or routine) that very very few people can do - bringing *everything* to God when it feels useless to bring *anything* to God.

**9** my eye grows dim through sorrow.

    Every day I call upon you, O Lord;

    I spread out my hands to you.

**10** Do you work wonders for the dead?

    Do the departed rise up to praise you?

**11** Is your steadfast love declared in the grave,

    or your faithfulness in Abaddon?

**12** Are your wonders known in the darkness,

    or your righteousness in the land of forgetfulness?
> &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;**Note 9-12:** The only way I can be useful to you, is if I am *alive*, **not** *dead*. The dead will not praise you, **only** the alive do. **So keep me alive**.

**13** But I, O Lord, cry to you;

    in the morning my prayer comes before you.

**14** O Lord, why do you cast my soul away?

    Why do you hide your face from me?

**15** Afflicted and close to death from my youth up,

    I suffer your terrors; I am helpless.
> &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;**Note 14-15:** My current suffering reminds me of all the suffering I have endured when I was younger - always struggling, always hoping for a better future.

**16** Your wrath has swept over me;

    your dreadful assaults destroy me.

**17** They surround me like a flood all day long;

    they close in on me together.

**18** You have caused my beloved and my friend to shun me;

    my companions have become darkness.
> &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;**Note 16-18:** But this time it is different, this time I cannot make it through, you finally put me through something that I **know** I cannot withstand. This time ... I am tempted to seek darkness. This time - if you don't help me, _you will lose me_. 
